[Excel] (custom functions) equivalent add-ins (#912)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/make-office-web-add-in-compatible-with-existing-com-add-in.md

---

> title: Make your Office Web Add-in compatible with an existing COM add-in-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Make your Office Add-in compatible with an existing COM add-in-in
```

Reviewer: When referring to the Office Add-in, it's capital A, no "web." You can use lowercase "add-in" or  "web add-in" to refer to the same thing, second mention in a paragraph or sentence.

> description: 'Enable compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in that has the same functionality as your Office web add-in'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Enable compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in that has the same functionality as your Office Add-in'
```

ms.date: 04/22/2019
localization_priority: Normal
---

> # Make your Office Web Add-in compatible with an existing COM add-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Make your Office Add-in compatible with an existing COM add-in
```

> If you have an existing COM add-in, you can build equivalent functionality in your Office web add-in to extend your solution features to other platforms such as online or macOS. However, Office web add-ins don't have all of the functionality available in COM add-ins. Your COM add-in may provide a better experience than the web add-in on Windows in Excel, Word, and PowerPoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an existing COM add-in, you can build equivalent functionality in your Office Add-in to extend your solution features to other platforms such as online or macOS. However, Office web add-ins don't have all of the functionality available in COM add-ins. Your COM add-in may provide a better experience than the web add-in on Windows in Excel, Word, and PowerPoint.
```

> If you have an existing COM add-in, you can build equivalent functionality in your Office web add-in to extend your solution features to other platforms such as online or macOS. However, Office web add-ins don't have all of the functionality available in COM add-ins. Depending on the functionality your solution uses, the COM add-in may provide a better experience than the web add-in on Windows in Excel, Word, and PowerPoint.

Reviewer 2: Consider "Depending on the functionality your solution uses" -> "Depending on your solution"
The word functionality gets used a lot, so this cuts back on the repetition.

Author: @AlexJerabek actually simplified even further. "Your COM add-in may provide a better experience..." Thanks!

> You can configure your Office web add-in so that when an equivalent COM add-in is already installed on the user's computer, Office runs the COM add-in instead of your web add-in. The COM add-in is called "equivalent" because Office will seamlessly transition between the COM add-in and the web add-in depending on which is installed on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure your Office Add-in so that when an equivalent COM add-in is already installed on the user's computer, Office runs the COM add-in instead of your web add-in. The COM add-in is called "equivalent" because Office will seamlessly transition between the COM add-in and the web add-in depending on which is installed on Windows.
```

> You can configure your Office web add-in so that when an equivalent COM add-in is already installed on the user's computer, Office runs the COM add-in instead of your web add-in. The COM add-in is called equivalent because Office will seamlessly transition between the COM add-in and the web add-in depending on which is installed on Windows.

Reviewer 2: Consider "called equivalent because" -> "called "equivalent" because".

[!include[Excel custom functions note](../includes/excel-custom-functions-note.md)]

> ## Specify equivalent COM add-in in the manifest

Reviewer 2: "Specify equivalent" -> "Specify an equivalent"

> To enable compatibility with an existing COM add-in, identify the equivalent COM add-in in the manifest of your web add-in. Then Office will use the COM add-in instead of your web add-in when running on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable compatibility with an existing COM add-in, identify the equivalent COM add-in in the manifest of your Office Add-in. Then Office will use the COM add-in instead of your web add-in when running on Windows.
```

Specify the `ProgID` of the equivalent COM add-in. Office will then use the COM add-in UI instead of your web add-in UI when the COM add-in is installed.

The following example shows how to specify both a COM add-in and an XLL as equivalent. Often you will specify both so for completeness this example shows both in context. They are identified by their `ProgID` and `FileName` respectively. For more information on XLL compatibility, see [Make your custom functions compatible with XLL user-defined functions](../excel/make-custom-functions-compatible-with-xll-udf.md).

```xml
<VersionOverrides>
...
<EquivalentAddins>  
<EquivalentAddin>  
       <ProgID>ContosoCOMAddin</ProgID>  
       <Type>COM</Type>  
  </EquivalentAddin>  
  
  <EquivalentAddin>  
       <FileName>contosofunctions.xll</FileName>  
       <Type>XLL</Type>  
  </EquivalentAddin>  
<EquivalentAddins>
...
</VersionOverrides>

> ```

Reviewer 2: Double check the indentation in this sample. It's inconsistent between 2 and 4 spaces.

## Equivalent behavior for users

> When an equivalent COM add-in is specified in the web add-in manifest, Office suppresses your web add-in's UI on Windows when the equivalent COM add-in is installed. This does not affect your web add-in's UI on other platforms like online or macOS. Office only hides the ribbon buttons and does not prevent installation. Therefore your web add-in will still appear in the following UI locations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an equivalent COM add-in is specified in the Office Add-in manifest, Office suppresses your web add-in's UI on Windows when the equivalent COM add-in is installed. This does not affect your web add-in's UI on other platforms like online or macOS. Office only hides the ribbon buttons and does not prevent installation. Therefore your web add-in will still appear in the following UI locations:
```

> - Under **My Add-ins** because it is technically installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Under **My add-ins** because it is technically installed.
```
I'm pretty sure it's lc in the interface, but please verify!

> When an equivalent COM add-in is specified in the web add-in manifest, Office suppresses your web add-in UI on Windows when the equivalent COM add-in is installed. This does not affect your web add-in UI on other platforms like online or macOS. Office only hides the ribbon buttons and does not prevent installation. Therefore your web add-in will still appear in the following UI locations:

Reviewer 2: "your web add-in UI" -> "your web add-in's UI"
(x2 in this line)

- As an entry in the ribbon manager.

The following scenarios describe what happens depending on how the user acquires the web add-in.

> ### Office Store acquisition of web add-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AppSource acquisition of an Office Add-in
```

> If a user downloads the web add-in from the Office store, and the equivalent COM add-in is already installed, then Office will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user downloads the web add-in from AppSource, and the equivalent COM add-in is already installed, then Office will:
```

1. Install the web add-in.
2. Hide the web add-in UI in the ribbon.
3. Display a call-out for the user that points out the COM add-in ribbon button.

> ### Centralized deployment of web add-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Centralized deployment of an Office Add-in
```

> If an admin deploys the web add-in to their tenant using centralized deployment, and the equivalent COM add-in is already installed, the user needs to restart Office before they will see any changes. After they restart Office, Office will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an admin deploys the web add-in to their tenant using centralized deployment, and the equivalent COM add-in is already installed, the user needs to restart Office before they will see any changes. After Office restarts, it will:
```

1. Install the web add-in.
2. Hide the web add-in UI in the ribbon.
3. Display a call-out for the user that points out the COM add-in ribbon button.

> ### Document shared with embedded web add-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Document shared with embedded Office Add-in
```

If a user has the COM add-in installed, and then gets a shared document with the embedded web add-in, then when they open the document, Office will:

> 1. The user will see a trust prompt for the web add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prompt the user to trust the web add-in.
```

> 2. If trusted, the web add-in will install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If trusted, install the web add-in.
```

> 3. Office hides the web add-in UI in the ribbon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Hide the web add-in UI in the ribbon.
```

> ### User uninstalls the COM add-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Other COM add-in behavior
```

> If a user uninstalls the COM add-in, then Office restores the web add-in UI on Windows for the equivalent installed web add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user uninstalls the COM add-in, then Office restores the Office Add-in UI on Windows for the equivalent installed web add-in.
```

> ### Web add-in updates are turned off

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Web add-in updates are turned off

Reviewer 2: Could these last two H3s be merged under a single H2 banner of "Other COM add-in behavior" or something?

Reviewer: Agree with Alex!

> Once you specify an equivalent COM add-in for your web add-in, Office stops processing updates for your web add-in. The user must uninstall the COM add-in order to get the latest updates for the web add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you specify an equivalent COM add-in for your web add-in, Office stops processing updates for your Office Add-in. The user must uninstall the COM add-in order to get the latest updates for the Office Add-in.
```
